So we covered a lot of ground already,
we learned a lot about environment variables, the plugins and so on.
Now I was talking about building the app before and about these different modes, building simply means that
we compile our code to a bundle and the serve command here does this automatically, it does that in
memory and spins up that development server which then serves that development bundle with debugging
tools enabled and all of that, the build command does that for a production ready bundle.
And as you can see, we got some command set up in the package.json file and they all use vue
cli service.
Now that's a package we didn't install,
it's a package which was installed automatically,
here it is, which was installed automatically when we created this project.
It only exists in this project,
it's not installed globally
so if you would run vue build here, this would fail because the vue cli service which is doing this
only exists locally and not globally on your machine
and the vue cli itself does not have that functionality added to it because of that plugin driven
architecture, the build commands itself are part of a plugin too, of that cli service plugin here
basically.
So you can of course add your own scripts though, like build development and then you could define that
there you want to use that local vue cli service
and now the interesting thing is I can run build there and by default, this would build it for production,
now I can set my mode here and remember, I talked about mode when I talked about environment variables
with --mode,
I can set my mode here to development,
this is one of the free built in modes.
If I now save this and I run npm run build:development, so I'm using that script I just created,
it will use that local cli service to create that build and it will now not just build it for memory
as it does with serve but it will give me a build folder, that dist folder which contains my build application
but and that's important in development mode, which is why it's not minified and anything like that
and it is in development mode because I use set this mode to development.
So this is how you can build that and how you can work with modes
and one additional note, you can also create your own modes.
I can build for staging for example,
it's not one of the free built in modes
and then I could use a .env.staging file here to set variables for my custom mode here.
And with that if I now run this again, it will still work because it accepts this custom mode too, it
will then not of course use some of the optimisations it sets on its own, for production for example because
it is in production mode
but if you tweak the webpack config and set your own custom variables here,
you can run your custom mode, you just have to do more work then.
Because as I just explained, the build for example will not be optimized because it's not building for
production, so it doesn't detect that this should be comparable to production for example
but if you need all that finetuning, you can dig into the official webpack configuration and you can
set your own mode and that is really a cool thing.
A lot of it works out of the box,
then you can add plugins and if you need full control, you can have that too,
you can customize everything essentially.